you need Police Fire ambulance
I believe okay and what's going on there
I thank you Matt and I've been missing
for ten years and I'm here
[Music]
for more than a decade there was a dark
secret hidden away in this city
in a quiet suburb three girls were
imprisoned tortured beaten and raped
Ariel Castro a school bus driver had
kidnapped all three girls Gina DeJesus
Amanda berry a Michelle Knight in 2013 a
decade on miraculously they escaped
[Music]
I had gotten off of work early that day
and I worked at Burger King I called my
sister for a ride she was at work and I
had called a friend for a ride and he
didn't answer so I just started walking
and as I was walking there was a VIN and
it was in a driveway that I had to go
around I looked up saw a man and a girl
in the band the girl looked like someone
that I had worked with so you know I
smiled at them continued to walk a
couple minutes later the van pulls up
and he says dunya right
I was walking home from school with his
daughter Arlene Castro and she used to
pay phone to call her mom to ask her if
she could come to my house and my mom
said no she went her other way and I
went the other way
he asked me if I seemed his daughter and
I said yes and he was like can you help
me find her I was like yes and then he
didn't turn around I wind up going to
his house I had my Burger King outfit on
so he noticed that and he was talking
about how his son had used to work there
and that I knew a couple of his kids so
so it was a kind of casual conversation
yes and then of course when you get to
the house you immediately know that he's
not going to let you out yes
amanda had recently celebrated her 16th
birthday when she was kidnapped once
locked inside Castro's house she
discovered his first victim 21 year old
Michelle Knight
this is Seymour Avenue less than four
miles from where the girls are abducted
Ariel Castro moved here in 1992 and he
was well-known in the area he imprisoned
the three girls here for more than ten
years they were chained up for much of
the time raped over and over again half
starved sometimes beaten and never
allied out of the squalid airless house
to 207 Seymour Avenue has been razed to
the ground now one less physical
reminder of the girl's decade in hell
[Music]
Amanda you had demonstrated
extraordinary foresight to keep a diary
how did that come about what did you do
well within the first week you know I
was just sitting in a dark room watching
this small black and white TV and he
asked me is there anything that you
needed from the store you know coloring
books or something and I said yes you
know color book would be nice and a
journal you almost made a code didn't
you I mean the code you were being raped
repeatedly sometimes up to five times a
day but what you did would you just put
3 X 4 X 5 X so why did you do that I
know eventually if we were ever freed
you know my mom would read this and I
wanted my family to kind of know what
what I went through and how horrible it
was and I also wanted him I wanted
everything to be accounted for but was
it also way of writing about the rapes
but not writing about the rapes exactly
how did he chained you you you know when
you're my teen went through her wall to
my world like through war because her
room my room were connected so much
straight to a while and then I'm like
divided for my ankle to me she'll think
oh it must have been terrible to have
the chains on all the time but also when
he was abusing you physically he had you
sometimes in the same room there was
only like a couple of time that that
happened with me and yeah that was like
horrible like I just I remember crying
and telling him no but again it was part
of the sadism I think the more we cried
and showed him our pain in our sorrow
like he like got energy from that like
it helped him so we kind of learn yeah
we kind of learned right to like just
don't cry don't show him your pain don't
show him your mad even though sometimes
you're hurt and so he won't laugh from
inside
[Music]
one of the coolest things I think early
on that he did was he talked to you
about the fact that he'd been on his
motorcycle and he's seen your mum
handing out flyers about your
disappearance and he had gone up and
taken a flyer from her and asked if
there was any information about you
which was so cruel but you asked for the
flyer now why did you want to keep the
flyer tell me because my mom was handy
not to fire and I was the only thing
that was close to her but you also
wanted to decorate it and did you think
that you would be able to keep that fire
to the day that you saw yes and that was
important to you
[Music]
Gina's parents Nancy and Felix never
gave up the search for their missing
daughter
we did everything any ideas that came up
if anybody approached us we took of
Dennis because we knew we had to keep
her alive we need we knew we had to keep
her out there so people would not forget
you got a chance to see your families on
television that must mean both
heartbreaking but was also it had left
your spirits Amanda it did you know that
was the only way we knew how they looked
what had changed within a year now that
they were still fighting for you
feel like a piece of my heart was
missing because it was just me my mom my
sister my two children my husband we did
everything together when she came up
missing I lost a piece of me you know we
were so close she's my best friend and
it was hard but you kept going I kept
going because like I said I've never
given up hope on my sister if I didn't
know anything about her
there was nothing bad in my heart you
know so all I can do is keep hope and
keep going for Eugenia - you have this
big no fun family and then you were able
to see them on television to see your
mom yes but something else came on the
television as well that you did watch it
but you watched the Royal Wedding I did
tell me oh so it was like the biggest
thing and all the news channels you know
and I loved watching the news to know
what's going on in the world and they're
like well you know you have to wake up
at like 6:00 a.m. and I was gonna be on
this channel so I actually set my clock
and got up at 6 a.m.
to me that was just something that would
I don't know it's happiness
they're getting married and to see what
her dress look like and see all the
people there and it was just beautiful
I still one day when I get married and
have a family you know that normalcy and
what did you think of her dress um I
think it could have been a little
fancier she is a princess yeah
[Music]
three years into Amanda's ordeal
something would happen which would
change the experience of everyone in
sight
Amanda became pregnant I had realized
that I hadn't gotten my period and that
was like the first sign and then I had
started like getting sick like I
couldn't eat anything and I would just
throw it up so that was like that was
the sign but you knew that he didn't
want to baby in the house yeah because
you know if the baby cries or you know
the neighbors hear a baby or someone
comes to the house and what do you do
with the baby how do you keep a baby
quiet but then came the time when you
went into labor yeah I really didn't
even know I was going into labor I just
had like labor pains all day but I had
no idea what it was
eventually I do use the bathroom and
like I heard something pop and I didn't
know what it was but then he's like oh I
you know I think your water broke so he
takes me upstairs into my bedroom and he
brings out this baby pool and that's
where I had just like lay and so I had
the baby so I go what make a mess on the
bed so he had gotten Michelle to come in
and help me deliver the baby and he said
in a rocking chair and write a baby like
a book how do I give birth when Jocelyn
was born did it kind of reinforce all
your survival instincts the three of you
that they had a baby in the house I mean
how did it make a difference Gina to
have Jocelyn and I I cried when she was
born I just I'm just like thank God that
she was all right
because it could have been otherwise yes
the time did come for going to school
and you made the school tell me about
meeting a kindergarten we'd wake up in
the morning we would have breakfast we
would pretend walk to school yeah I try
to make it as real as possible for her
you know so we would lock the door and
we would walk to school cross streets
and I would tell her you know stop at
green lights and look both ways when
it's a red light
and we would finally get to school and I
would sit her down and tell her okay I
love you have a good day and then I
would become her teacher then of course
finally the day came how did you get out
so Justin goes to go downstairs because
she was allowed to go downstairs you
know when she wanted if he had the door
open usually and so she goes downstairs
and she's like I guess looking for him
and she comes upstairs and she says
mommy daddy's blue car's not here and I
said so what does that mean you know
just maybe he's in the garage go look in
the garage go look around the house he's
in the backyard somewhere so she's okay
okay because I have a TV so loud but I
heard her coming up and down the stairs
I heard jessalyn whispering and I just
just sat there listened to everything
and just kept watching TV
I don't see anything
so I finally tell Justin I'm like okay
but then I try to open the door the
screen door and there's like a lock on
there like a chain lock so I'm like oh
my gosh like and I noticed like as I
looked at it like you had to have a key
so I'm like it and open the door so I'm
like pushing it I'm thinking like oh
it's gonna break easy it's just a screen
door but it it didn't break so I'm like
at that point I'm like you know yelling
and screaming and I'm like I have my it
was just about that much room that I
could fit my arm through so I have my
arm like waving going crazy like
somebody please help me I see this girl
going nuts trying to get out of a house
so we could kick the bottom and she
comes out with a little girl and she
says call 9-1-1 Police Fire ambulance
I'm ok what's going on there I think
I've been missing for ten years and I'm
ugly right now I just out there and then
an inherent caming I just heard when
when the cops like start to break in the
house and stuff I'm not thinking of the
cops are they I'm thinking oh no he
found her and she's gonna be in big
trouble we also have a Michelle Knight
in the house
they put me in the back of the car when
they went into the house and got Gino
Michel and then they walked us all to
the ambulance so that was like the first
time that we were together and we were
like talking freely and she me and her
were sitting next to each other and she
looks at me and she says wow like you
know we're really free
[Applause]
[Music]
you actually do have an incredibly
bright future now what do you want to do
more than anything someday I want to be
able to help other people that's maybe
don't have a voice or as scared or as
going through something and they don't
know what to do or how to get through
something you know I definitely want to
help people
one day one more thing when you am
engaged a lawyer and he asked you if you
wanted anything you just said you wanted
two things what were they a tombstone a
headstone for my mom because she hadn't
had one and a burghers of it gift for my
daughter
[Music]
and what about you Gina what's your
dream I want to help people like me and
change a lot of people
[Music]
you know having not quite believed that
you were going to get out what was it
like when you got out I was I still
couldn't believe that I was out and I
don't think it hit me - I got to the
hospital and you were out in the normal
world yes and I was happy
[Music]
you